April CQA work for MTA 8.1 Release Notes DITA fixes (#356)
migtools/mta-documentation: docs/topics/release-notes-topics/ref_fixed-issues-8-0-1.adoc

= Fixed issues

[role="_abstract"]

> Review issues that have been fixed in {ProductFullName} version 8.0.1.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Review issues that have been fixed in {ProductFullName} version 8.0.1.
```
just removing additional trailing spaces, it might impact rendering

Before this update, when analyzing a Java application, {ProductShortName} did not trigger rules to match import statements that contained a wildcard. As a consequence, {ProductShortName} did not detect specific incidents in the report. With this update, {ProductShortName} triggers the rules to match these statements. As a result, it successfully detects the incidents.
+
link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTA-4027[MTA-4027]

You can edit secure SVN application without an error in {ProductShortName} {WebName}::
Before this update, editing an application stored in a Subversion (SVN) repository caused issues if you disabled the `Allow insecure connection` setting. As a consequence, the {WebName} displayed a blank page with the `TypeError` `cannot read properties of undefined (reading 'kind')` error. With this update, {ProductShortName} correctly handles secure SVN applications. As a result, you can successfully edit these applications in the {WebName}.
+
link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTA-6263[MTA-6263]

{ProductShortName} no longer fails language and tech discovery for Java application in SVN repositories::

> Before this update, for a Java application source code stored in an Subversion (SVN) repository, {ProductShortName} produced an error when trying to checkout the repository by using the SVN credential. As a consequence, the language and tech discovery of the application failed. With this update, you can analyze an application stored in SVN repository without any error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before this update, for a Java application source code stored in a Subversion (SVN) repository, {ProductShortName} produced an error when trying to checkout the repository by using the SVN credential. As a consequence, the language and tech discovery of the application failed. With this update, you can analyze an application stored in SVN repository without any error.
```

`a` and `an` difference in acronyms is a pain

Reviewer 2: Nice catch!

= Fixed issues

[role="_abstract"]

> Review the following fixed issues that have a significant impact in {ProductFirstRef} ({ProductShortName}) version 8.0.1.  

Reviewer 2: Passive is ok here. Let's drop the "significant impact". Release notes only contain important notes.
```suggestion
Review issues that have been fixed in {ProductFirstRef} ({ProductShortName}) version 8.0.1.  
```

Concurrent usage of {mta-dl-plugin} for code resolution at scale no longer causes race conditions::
Concurrent usage of the Solution Server through the {mta-dl-plugin} in Visual Studio Code for code resolution at scale caused race conditions for duplicate incidents. With this release, the plugin generates resolutions for the incidents identified when many users use it concurrently. 
+
link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTA-6230[MTA-6230]

{ProductShortName} uses FQNs in Java rules to match annotations in source code:: 
Before this update, the annotation rules for Java applications did not use Fully Qualified Names (FQNs) to match with the annotation location in source code. As a result, the rule triggered incorrect matches or false positives for issues. For example, a rule that looked for the `javax.enterprise.inject.Produces` incorrectly matched with occurrences of `javax.ws.rs.Produces`. With this release, {ProductShortName} uses the FQN in the `ANNOTATION` field in rules to match annotations in the source code.
+
link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTA-6195[MTA-6195]

{ProductShortName} triggers rules to match import statements with wildcard in Java applications analysis::

> {ProductShortName} did not trigger rules to match import statements that contain a wildcard when analyzing a Java application. As a result, {ProductShortName} did not detect specific incidents in the report after the analysis. With this release, this issue is fixed. 

Reviewer 2: It is not a result, it is consequence. For fixed issues, we use "result" for the fix itself, not for something that followed the issue.
```suggestion
{ProductShortName} did not trigger rules to match import statements that contain a wildcard when analyzing a Java application. Consequently, {ProductShortName} did not detect specific incidents in the report after the analysis. With this release, this issue is fixed. 
```

+
link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTA-6141[MTA-6141]

{ProductShortName} displays source repository URL when you skip configuring the repository type field::
{ProductShortName} did not show the source repository URL in the application details view if you did not select between the `Git` or `Subversion` repository type. As a result, you could not run an analysis on the application source code. With this release, you can use {ProductShortName} to run an analysis on the source code even if you do not configure the repository type field.
+
link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTA-6105[MTA-6105]

You can complete an assessment by using a custom questionnaire in the {ProductShortName} {WebName}:: 
Before this update, you could not proceed to the final step after filling in the responses to the custom questionnaire because {ProductShortName} disabled the *Next* button in the web console. With this release, you can complete the questionnaire in {ProductShortName} {WebName}.
+
link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTA-6143[MTA-6143]

> {ProductShortName} web console detects custom rules when you upload many rules at a time::

Reviewer 2: "Multiple" fits better here.
```suggestion
{ProductShortName} web console detects custom rules when you upload multiple rules at once::
```

{ProductFirstRef} ({ProductShortName}) version 8.0.1 provides the following fixed issues and other problems that have a significant impact. 

Improved the performance of Java binary analysis::
Before this change, when you analyzed Java binary applications, {ProductShortName} incorrectly classified some open source dependencies as internal dependencies. {ProductShortName} then decompiled and analyzed the dependencies that caused the analysis to take longer to complete. With this update, {ProductShortName} passes the location of the Maven index file to the Java provider to determine if an embedded dependency is open source or internal. This fix resolved the two following issues:

> {ProductShortName} reduces binary application analysis latency::

Reviewer 3: The updated wording sounds a bit odd. I believe it might be because it sounds anthropomorphic now. 
While I support the idea of using  active voice as much as possible, there are valid cases to use passive voice, thus I do not recommend replacing all instances of passive voice. For details, see IBM SG https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=grammar-verbs#voice.

<img width="886" height="677" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3d889010-8d67-4655-8577-6e84a445589f" />

I suggest to review all changed instances of passive voice and evaluate if they keep the meaning and work fine.

Author: These rules are surely inconsistent :)

When you analyzed a binary, the performance degraded because {ProductShortName} relied on Maven search. With this release, this issue is fixed by introducing the pre-generated Maven index that does not require connecting to an external index.
+
(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTA-6231[MTA-6231])

Analysis of binary applications classifies open source dependencies correctly::
When you analyzed Java binary applications, {ProductShortName} incorrectly classified some open source dependencies as internal dependencies. With this version, this issue is fixed. This leads to {ProductShortName} classifying embedded open source dependencies correctly after a `source+dependency` binary analysis. 
+
(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTA-6357[MTA-6357])

> Specify an organization when importing applications from Cloud Foundry::

Reviewer 3: Here and further:
We should reserve imperative (Specify, Import, Edit, Complete, etc.) for steps in procedures. Imperative do not belong in Release Notes. Please fix them all. For this particular case, we could say something like:

```suggestion
Specifying an organization is possible when importing applications from Cloud Foundry::
```

Actually, looking at it further, I do not think it belongs under Fixed issue. This works better under New features, as mentioned in the engineering PR https://github.com/konveyor/asset-generation/pull/68. Consider moving it to the appropriate section.

Author: I think we should organize RN candidates based on what the downstream JIRA type is (bug etc) and not go by upstream PR comments. [MTA-6271](https://redhat.atlassian.net/browse/MTA-6271) has a clarification about how this feature was merged but not included in the build of the previous release. Hence, it is classified as a bug in this release. Thanks!

Reviewer 3: I think we then should consult with CS.

@anarnold97, could you weight in on this one please? This RN currently is documented as a Fixed Issue based on the Jira type (Bug). However, in my opinion it fits an Enhancement description better based on the change and upstream PR https://github.com/konveyor/asset-generation/pull/68. WDYT? Thank you.

Reviewer: ## **Action item**

Clarify `Reliance upon maven search has led to a significant degradation in performance for analyzing binary applications.`

I will seek [**clarity**](https://redhat-internal.slack.com/archives/C0AV1LJ2N5Q/p1777022393064539).

However, there are problems with this entry in the release notes, adding a "provision for you to mention the CF organizations" reads more like an improvement to an existing function, which is the definition of an enhancement. The current way it reads does like an enhancement.

## **Classification: Fixed Issue vs. Enhancement**

Conceptually, adding the ability to "specify CF organizations" appears to be an **enhancement** (an improvement to an existing function) rather than a **fixed issue** (a bug fix).

* **Action**: Verify the **Release Note Type** field in the corresponding Jira ticket.  
* The classification determines which mandatory template you must use.

## **If Categorized as a Fixed Issue**

If this is officially a bug fix, you must strictly follow the **Cause-Consequence-Fix-Result (CCFR)** tense logic:

* **Cause & Consequence:** The text states the past behavior ("did not have a provision") but lacks the mandatory "Before this update," introductory phrase and a clear explanation of the consequence the user experienced.
* **Fix:** The phrase "With this release, this issue is fixed" is too vague. The fix description must explain what has changed without relying on overly technical details.
* **Result:** The text lacks the mandatory "As a result," transition to explain what happens now that the patch is applied.

### **Suggested Rewrite (Fixed Issue):**

Before this update, when you imported applications from Cloud Foundry (CF), {ProductShortName} did not have a provision for you to specify CF organizations. As a consequence, you could not target specific organizations during the discovery process. With this release, you can configure one or more organizations, spaces, and applications for discovery. As a result, you can specify at least one organization for application discovery, where spaces can belong to different organizations and applications can belong to different spaces.

## **If Categorized as an Enhancement**

If categorized as an enhancement, the note must follow this structure: `<Feature, enhancement\>`. `<Reason\>`. As a result, `<result\>`..

### **Suggested Rewrite (Enhancement):**

When importing applications from Cloud Foundry (CF), you can configure one or more organizations, spaces, and applications for the discovery process. This enhancement provides a provision to specify CF organizations, which ensures that spaces can belong to different organizations and applications can belong to different spaces. As a result, you can target specific organizations during application discovery.

---

## **Heading Style and Grammar**

The current heading ("Specify an organization...") is written as an imperative command.

* **Tone**: Gerunds should be avoided in release note headings ; they are typically reserved for procedural content.  
* **Capitalization**: Use sentence-style capitalization.  
* **Clarity**: Headings should be specific, informative, and under 120 characters.  

**Suggested Heading:** Application discovery supports specifying Cloud Foundry organizations

---

## **General Style**

* **Avoid "now"**: Do not use the word "now" to refer to the state after an update, as the temporal context can cause confusion in archived notes.  
* **Word Choice**: Use **enter** rather than "type" or "input" to indicate that a user should input text.  
* **Jira References**: 
 
---

> [!NOTE]
> 
> It is part of our job description to use AI to reviews, which would shown this issue in the language used.

+
(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTA-6399[MTA-6399])

{ProductShortName} automatically tags imported Cloud Foundry applications::
When you imported applications in {ProductShortName} from a Cloud Foundry (CF) instance, the applications did not contain the `Cloud Foundry` tag. The tag links an application to an archetype. The archetype has a generator that produces the deployment assets for a migration path. With this release, this issue is fixed. You no longer have to manually add the `Cloud Foundry` tag in the imported application.
+
(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTA-6282[MTA-6282])

> Import Cloud Foundry applications from the application inventory in the {ProductShortName} web console:: 

Reviewer 3: Imperative, please rephrase. New heading should convey the idea that it is a bug fix. Fix if it occurs elsewhere too.

Author: Can we please have consistency in heading rules: be it release notes or other modules?  I'm retaining the imperatives in the fixed issue title as it doesn't affect DITA migration. Thank you!

Reviewer 3: While indeed imperatives in RN headings won't affect DITA migration, having them there is against our style guides and must be changed. We must follow the style guides. Please change them all.

As for the consistency in heading rules, according to our Style Guides we can  use imperative (Review, Import, etc.) for some abstracts (Review, etc.), procedure headings, and procedure steps.

(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTA-6195[MTA-6195])

{ProductShortName} triggers rules to match import statements with wildcard in Java applications analysis::
{ProductShortName} did not trigger rules to match import statements that contain a wildcard when analyzing a Java application. As a result, {ProductShortName} did not detect specific incidents in the report after the analysis. With this release, this issue is fixed. 
+
(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTA-4027[MTA-4027])

> Edit secure SVN application without an error in {ProductShortName} {WebName}::

Reviewer 3: Imperative, please rephrase.

Author: Does not affect DITA migration. Hence, retained the imperative format. Thank you!

Reviewer 3: While indeed imperatives in RN headings won't affect DITA migration, having them there is against our style guides and must be changed. We must follow the style guides. Please change them all.

+
(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTA-6105[MTA-6105])

> Complete an assessment by using a custom questionnaire in the {ProductShortName} {WebName}:: 

Reviewer 3: Imperative, please rephrase. Fix if it occurs elsewhere too.

Author: Does not affect DITA migration. Hence, retained the imperative format. Thank you!

Reviewer 3: While indeed imperatives in RN headings won't affect DITA migration, having them there is against our style guides and must be changed. We must follow the style guides. Please change them all.

Before this update, you could not proceed to the final step after filling in the responses to the custom questionnaire because {ProductShortName} disabled the *Next* button in the web console. With this release, this issue is fixed.
+
(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTA-6143[MTA-6143])

> {ProductShortName} web console detects custom rules when you upload many at a time::

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
{ProductShortName} web console detects custom rules when you upload many rules at a time::
```

For clarity.
